	1) Plan for Decred on Linkedin
	
			Goals:
				1) Portray a professional identity as
					a. A blockchain that is directed by autonomous stakeholders
					b. digital currency/store of value/ open source software/organization
			Target:
				2)  Target the attention of individuals or parties that can: 
					a. Be productive members of the community with varying skillsets (community outreach/marketing/ educational, design, art, coding etc..)
					b. Have Long term visions
					c. Self starters
								
			Posts/Campaigns:
			
			Each category can be showcased once a week unless unremarkable. Information to be presented succinctly with visuals. 
			
				1) Garnering Interest campaings
        
					- Productivity : posts regarding development and community output showcasing
						§ Monthly journal 
						§ Dev snapshot
						§ Educational/interesting articles that are appropriate for the above goals
						§ Upcoming releases and roadmaps
					- Network statistics:
						§ Hashrate updates periodically
						§ Ticket prices and ticket reward rates update
						§ Ticket pool value
						§ Block reward updates with breakdown
					- Politea Specific news
						§ Number of proposals and voting stages
						§ Updates and announcements
					
			 2) Attracting Talent campaigns
        *Campaigns for attracting talent (developers and organizations)
         (Talent Requirements needed (golang devs, front end devs, designers, testers)
					
					- Roadmap items being developed and where help is needed?
					- Possible links to introductory issues people can work on?
					- Project Treasure info?
					- LinkedIn learning Courses (https://learning.linkedin.com/instructors?u=0#)
						§ Courses to offer
							□  Beginner Course
								– Understanding Decred?
									w What is Decred? Why was it created?
									w How does it work?
									w DCR a currency 
									w DCR as an Asset
									
								– Using Decred via CLI and UI?
									w Setting up your wallet
									w Best Security Practices
									w Sending receiving
									w Buying Tickets and voting
									
								– Comparing Decred with other Cryptocurrencies?
									w Decred's place amongst other cryptos
									w How it differes from bitcoin
								– Moving Forward with Decred?
									w Tracking
									w Examing threats
									w Mining
									w Where to trade
									w Connecting with the community
								
						§ Advanced Courses
							□ Getting Familiar with the codebase
							□ How to contribute
							□ How to become a contractor
								
				
			
