Balancing power structures: how Decred iterates upon Bitcoin
It is in the nature of open source software to evolve with collaboration and fork under contention. The same is true for blockchains and cryptocurrencies. As blockchains face the hurdle of mass adoption, coordination and collective decision making can contribute to the success of a project. While Bitcoin's protocol is the standard for most cryptocurrencies as it relates to network consensus, it is arguably deficient as a mechanism for achieving social consensus among stakeholders. This article depicts how achieving social consensus on intra-protocol changes can lead to disruptive events on the Bitcoin (or Bitcoin Cash!) network, and examines how Decred's protocol allows these changes to occur in a more efficient and stable manner. This article will use diagrams to illustrate which entities can influence protocol evolution and shed some light on the high-level power structures that govern most blockchain based cryptocurrencies.
Some definitions:
Social consensus = Peers in agreement 
Intra-protocol changes = Changes to the consensus rules 
Consensus failure = A change to the rule-set that results in chain splits
Sustained chain split = When there are multiple competing versions of the same blockchain for an extended period of time

Entities in the visual diagrams:
Power structure diagrams will be introduced in this article, the structures are made up of entities that fall into three categories:
Validation:

Mining Nodes refer to nodes that choose to secure the network because they see value in running a particular full node implementation, for example bitcoin core. As networks become competitive, miners could congregate in mining pools to get consistent payouts.
Staking Nodes (specific to Decred) refer to nodes that choose to time-lock their coins by running a particular implementation. These nodes are able to weight in on validating blocks, vote on proposed intra-protocol changes and earn a portion of the block reward. 

2.  Value:
Economic Nodes are exchanges, merchants, and businesses where the value of the network and token is derived from. Economic nodes rely on the implementation developers, foundation or a community of open source developers for updates and patches. 
Users refer to the population that transacts and uses the software as they find value in it. They can also provide feedback to developers and incentivize businesses to adopt the technology.

3.  Software updates:
Developers of implementation are usually the core group of developers who work on the most dominant implementation the network runs on, e.g bitcoin core group. They provide the network with software updates and formulate a roadmap. 

Examining Bitcoin's PoW based governance
Using the above entities, we can create a diagram that communicates the power dynamics that govern a pure PoW cryptocurrency, such as Bitcoin. The green path shows the model in equilibrium with the entities described above. None of these entities have complete control, and if anyone is removed, the value proposition of the network changes.
Entities that have influence in Bitcoin. The above model was inspired by Nic Carters tripartite model and Jimmy songs article on UASF BIP148The issue with the above model is that there is no tamper-proof pathway for users, the only pathway is either proving feedback to the developers via forums/websites/polls or through the market itself. Therefore, the above model relies on market arbitration for resolution on decisions. We have seen instances of gridlocks and drawn out disputes as a result, all to influence the direction of the protocol. One of the biggest issue with the reliance on market forces is that it allows for the possibility of sustained chain splits due and contentious hard forks. There are a good deal of examples to portray that such potentialities can occur, a good example is the current Bitcoin cash split and the historical Bitcoin splits. Knowing this, we can extrapolate conditions, that can put the above model in a state of flux:
Pure PoW power structure in a contentious disputeA disagreement occurs in the developer camp over a proposed intra-protocol change. Social consensus is gauged (polls, meetings, social media). A competing rule-set emerges, backed by developers with new sources of funding.
Developers of old or new software provision an update, stating their intent to resolve problem x, some users show support to these developers through upgrading to this new rule-set/software.
Signaling can occur to help convince miners, however this is not a requirement (see User activated soft / hard fork (UASF/UAHF). 
A few mining pools can decide to support opposing rule-set, a hashpower split occurs.
If this is a very contentious change, miners can cause reorganizations by causing a hashpower war.
There is no formal pathway for formalizing intra-protocol decisions, the only option is a token split  and decision through market arbitration.
Economic nodes are incentivized by the users to support old and/or amended implementation.

By looking at the above model, it can be observed that when these two key stakeholders are put out of alignment, sustained chain splits can occur:
Users do not have a tamper-free pathway to participate in intra-protocol decision making. Social consensus and decisions are resolved via market arbitration.
Mining nodes can cause consensus failure by supporting alternative rule-sets as they are not bound by any agreements, they can also make speculative decisions to achieve an edge over other mining operations. Example ViaBTC causing Bitcoin cash fork.

Chain splits may occur 
Chain splits can occur from a varying events such as one depicted above or even accidentally due to a consensus bug. Chain splits could cause a loss of transaction finality, the defining feature of cryptocurrencies. Usually, the more the number of confirmations, the more confidence one can have in the permanence of the transaction.
Depiction of a blockchain reorganizing, all transactions mined in Fork B blocks will reverseHowever, during such events, no amount of confirmations are safe and in these circumstances a branch has to win and cause a reorganization. Reliance on hashpower to reach social consensus entails risks of disputes which can lead to drawn-out wars, and massive reorganization(s). Thus during such events, it is not safe for transactions to occur as there are increased risks of losses. 
Achieving evolution through sustained chain splits is thus a messy, sub-optimal and a damaging process. It reduces network security and opens up the chain to various attacks due to the dilution of hashpower and a loss of transaction finality. Here are a few good articles that explain sustained chain splits to understand scenarios and game theory  of a hashpower split:
The differences between a hard fork, a soft fork, and a chain split, and what they mean for the future of bitcoin
The dangers of sustained chain splits 
UASF BIP148 Scenarios and Game Theory
Examining Decred's Hybrid PoW/PoS based governance 
Decred iterates pure PoW based network consensus with staking nodes, providing a pathway for users to weigh in on intra-protocol decisions. This aligns user incentives and augments the protocols deterrent properties:
Staking nodes function to keep miners compliant and provide a secure pathway for decision makingIn this model, the PoW miners provide computational power to find blocks, however each block they produce needs to have a minimum ≥3 of 5 tickets from the ticket pool. For protocol changes, there is a 75% Yes threshold requirement based on voting preference that is gauged from a pool of ~40960 tickets, over an interval of 8064 blocks (~4 weeks). This means that hashpower is unable to extend the blockchain without the expressed approval of stakeholders. Users can become stakeholders and formally participate in the protection and evolution of the protocol through time-locking their coins for tickets.
An internal ticket market rewards users with a portion of the block subsidy (30%) as an incentive to participate. It is in the stakeholders best interest to make informed decisions as they are directly exposed to the downsides of bad decision making. Ticket prices also adjusts every 144 blocks (~12 hours) by an algorithm with the sole purpose of keeping the pool size to around ~40960 tickets. The coins are also locked in a deterministic pseudo-random fashion with an average vote time of ~28 days, making it hard to game with a reasonable payout time.
The tickets also have other abilities such as punishing bad mining behaviors, this can be done by enforcing soft policy-based compliance checks e.g fining  the propagation of empty blocks, or the act of censoring particular transactions. The remaining 10% goes to a fund (address) that pays for ongoing advancement of the project via a blockchain-anchored proposal system, called Politeia.
Benefits of the Hybrid approach:
The hybrid protocol incentivizes users to keep miners in compliance, any unapproved act or bad behavior by miners can face serious economic penalties. In a scenario where hashpower is split 50% between two forks, and a successful stake vote (75% stake in agreement), miners cannot purposely or accidentally cause sustained chain splits as they are unable to build on-top off unapproved blocks. Here is an image to help visualize this:
Miners cannot build on blocks that lack stakeholder ticketsCritique on Decred:
It is important to note that the issues that affect pure PoW can theoretically occur in Decred, however the protocol is designed to be highly resistant to them, a good explanation of demonstrating fork resistance can be found in the below link:
A simple yet detailed example of decred fork resistance is demonstrated by Dave Collins (lead C0 Decred dev) here. 
In addition to fork resistance, there is still a possibility for a 51% attack, however it is substantially more expensive to pull off compared to pure PoW. Here is an article on how expensive it is to do a majority attack in Decred:
Decred's hybrid protocol, a superior deterrent to majority attacks
Lastly, only one implementation of Decred is currently live, the good thing is that unlike bitcoin core, where alternative implementations are discouraged, Decred encourages alternative implementation as they will imbue anti-fragility to the network and further decentralize development. The danger of alternate implementations falling out of consensus is less of a threat in Decred simply because rule changes are voted in, any implementations which does not follow newly voted rules wont be able to extend the chain. 
Ongoing development
Externally funded development is a source of contention when it comes to decision making of the protocol. The Agency problem is a crux that Decred aims to solve through the creation of a stakeholder direct DAO (decentralized autonomous organization), however, the entity has been omitted from the power structure as it is yet to be realized. Currently, users will still be able to participate in co-developing and in providing feedback through Politeia. More about Politeia can be read here.
The creation of a DAO combined with Politeia should augment the power structure in way that benefits not only Decred, but possibly serve to be a growth engine for the crypto-ecosystem through funding research and development with an opensource ethos.
Conclusion
Cryptocurrencies operate on networks run by sovereign entities, these entities are able to agree on the current consensus rules however their opinions may differ if there are intra-protocol changes required. Gauging social consensus in bitcoin occurs off-chain, is not tamper-proof, and entails severe coordination issues. Sustained chain splits is one route for achieving protocol evolution, however it may prove to be a sub optimal path to resolve contentious disputes due to the risk of reorganizations and the splintering of communities. Decred addresses the problems that plagues PoW by allowing users to have a seat at the table through stake voting in order to keep miners compliant and unified during protocol changes. Evolution should thus occur in a manner that does not cause the splintering of the community of users nor the looming threats of large reorganizations due to sustained chain splits.
Credits (slack/matrix names): Haon, Bee, davecgh, s_ben, and others who have provided feedback and answered questions.
