Meanwhile, in the academic scene, researchers found many applications for proof of work besides spam, such as preventing denial-of-service attacks,25 ensuring the integrity of web analytics,17 and rate-limiting password guessing online.38Incidentally, the term proof of work was coined only in 1999 in a paper by Markus Jakobsson and Ari Juels, which also includes a nice survey of the work up until that point.24 It is worth noting that these researchers seem to have been unaware of hashcash but independently started to converge on hash-based proof of work, which was introduced in papers by Eran Gabber et al.18 and by Juels and Brainard.25 (Many of the terms used throughout this paragraph didn't become standard terminology until long after the papers in question were published.)

From <https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3136559> 


The hashing algorithm Blake-256 was chosen for Proof of Work because it has several qualities which make it ideal for use in crypto currencies. Energy efficiency is a primary advantage; mining Blake-256 uses roughly 3% less electricity than SHA-256D and roughly 14% less electricity than mining Scrypt. Blake-256 is also capable of generating considerably more hashes per second than most, if not all, other hashing algorithms. This is advantageous for crypto currencies because of the Law of Large Numbers, which is a probability theorem. Simply put, the more hashes per block, the more likely it is that the block will be found near the target block time. It also helps pools to more accurately reward miners for their percentage of shares. The Blake-256 algorithm is also advantageous because it is a simplified and parallelized design. This means that it is highly efficient on GPUs and FPGAs, and if or when ASICs are made for Blake-256 it also will be highly efficient.


Nodes in the Decred network are required to do more work and communication relative to nodes in the Bitcoin network.
The purpose of the Decred protocol is to have a decentralized cyrptocurrency network whose security is based on a combination of Proof of Work
and Proof of Stake. In general terms, Proof of Work based protocols give the decision-making power to entities who perform computational 
tasks, while Proof of Stake based protocols give the decision-making power to entities who hold stake in the system. While Proof of Stake 
based protocols offer advantages such as efficiency and performance, the protocol is neither trouble-free or proven effective at mitigating all the
major risks that cryptocurrencies face. One major risk is centralization, as data centers that are dedicated to PoW 
computations and transactions verification may outcompete hobbyist miners, due to economies of scale. With Proof of Stake systems, 
the particular risk of PoW data centers is indeed reduced, though other risks remain intact, new kinds of 
centralization risks are introduced such as large stakeholders taking control over the system.



